Blog about how to expose client IP through the stack of NLB and istio (#8526)
istio/istio.io: content/en/blog/2020/show-source-ip/index.md

---
title: How to enable proxy protocol on AWS NLB and Istio ingress gateway
subtitle: How to enable proxy protocol on AWS NLB and Istio ingress gateway
description: How to enable proxy protocol on AWS NLB and Istio ingress gateway.
publishdate: 2020-11-18
attribution: "Xinhui Li (Salesforce) "
keywords: [trafficManagement,protocol extending]
---

> This blog unveil my latest experience about how to configure/enable proxy protocol with stack of AWS NLB and Isio Ingress gateway. The **Proxy Protocol** was designed to chain proxies / reverse-proxies without losing the client information with the benefits from protocol agnostic, no need change infrastructure, no negative impact from nat-ing firewalls and good scalability.  To get client IP easy to read,  it is also enabled `X-Forwarded-For` of HTTP header in the deployment. In this blog, traffic management of istio ingress are shown with httpbin service on 80 and 443 respectively to demonstrate the enabling result. Below comes a part of the protocol describing about the difference of proxy protocol v1 and v2.  In out use case, both v1 and v2 works for the purpose but AWS NLB today only support v2 shown by image below. So proxy protocol v2 is referred in the rest of this blog by default.

Reviewer: nit: In out/In our

Reviewer 2: Change `**Proxy Protocol**` to a link: `[Proxy Protocol](https://what-is-it-url)`

Author: done thanks

{{< text yaml >}}
A receiver may be configured to support both version 1 and version 2 of the
protocol. Identifying the protocol version is easy :

>     - if the incoming byte count is 16 or above and the 13 first bytes match

Reviewer: nit: /s/and the 13 first bytes match/the first 13 bytes match

Author: done, thanks

      the protocol signature block followed by the protocol version 2 :
           \x0D\x0A\x0D\x0A\x00\x0D\x0A\x51\x55\x49\x54\x0A\x02
    - otherwise, if the incoming byte count is 8 or above, and the 5 first
      characters match the US-ASCII representation of "PROXY" then the protocol
      must be parsed as version 1 :
           \x50\x52\x4F\x58\x59
    - otherwise the protocol is not covered by this specification and the
      connection must be dropped.
{{< /text >}}

{{< image width="100%" link="./aws-proxy-protocol.png" caption="AWS NLB portal to enable proxy protocol" >}}

## Two set-ups for 80 and 443 separately

Before going through the follow steps, the aws env is assumed ready with proper VPC, IAM, and Kubernetes setup.

> Step 1: Install istio with AWS NLB.

Reviewer 2: Is there a link you can reference that explains how to do this (i.e., Install Istio with AWS NLB)?

Author: Thanks! Done

---
title: How to enable proxy protocol on AWS NLB and Istio ingress gateway
subtitle: How to enable proxy protocol on AWS NLB and Istio ingress gateway
description: How to enable proxy protocol on AWS NLB and Istio ingress gateway.
publishdate: 2020-11-18
attribution: "Xinhui Li (Salesforce) "
keywords: [trafficManagement,protocol extending]
---

> This blog presents my latest experience about how to configure/enable proxy protocol with stack of AWS NLB and Istio Ingress gateway. The [Proxy Protocol](https://www.haproxy.com/blog/haproxy/proxy-protocol/) was designed to chain proxies / reverse-proxies without losing the client information with the benefits from protocol agnostic, no need change infrastructure, no negative impact from `NATing` firewalls and good scalability.  To get client IP easy to read, it is also enabled `X-Forwarded-For` of HTTP header in the deployment. In this blog, traffic management of Istio ingress are shown with httpbin service on 80 and 443 respectively to demonstrate the enabling result. Below comes a part of the protocol describing about the difference of proxy protocol v1 and v2.  In our use case, both v1 and v2 works for the purpose but AWS NLB today only support v2 shown by image below. So, proxy protocol v2 is referred in the rest of this blog by default.

Author: Thanks for this wonderful revision.

{{< tip >}}
A receiver may be configured to support both version 1 and version 2 of the
protocol. Identifying the protocol version is easy:

> - if the incoming byte count is 16 or more and the first 13 bytes match the protocol signature block `\x0D\x0A\x0D\x0A\x00\x0D\x0A\x51\x55\x49\x54\x0A\x02`, the protocol is version 2.

Author: done

- otherwise, if the incoming byte count is 8 or more, and the 5 first characters match the `US-ASCII` representation of "PROXY"(`\x50\x52\x4F\x58\x59`), then the protocol must be parsed as version 1.

- otherwise the protocol is not covered by this specification and the connection must be dropped.
{{< /tip >}}

{{< image width="100%" link="./aws-proxy-protocol.png" caption="AWS NLB portal to enable proxy protocol" >}}

> ## Two set-ups for 80 and 443 separately

Author: done

> Before going through the following steps, the AWS env is assumed ready with proper VPC, IAM, and Kubernetes setup.

Author: done

### Step 1: Install Istio with AWS NLB

> Blog [Configuring Istio Ingress with AWS NLB](../../../blog/2018/aws-nlb/) provides detailed steps to set up AWS IAM roles and enable the usage of AWS NLB by Helm. The users can also use other automation tools e.g. Terraform to achieve the same goal. In this blog, below comes more complete configurations in order to enable proxy protocol and `X-Forwarded-For` at the same time.

Author: done

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  annotations:
    service.beta.kubernetes.io/aws-load-balancer-proxy-protocol: "*"
    service.beta.kubernetes.io/aws-load-balancer-type: "nlb"
    proxy.istio.io/config: '{"gatewayTopology" : { "numTrustedProxies": 2 } }'
  labels:
    app: istio-ingressgateway
    istio: ingressgateway
    release: istio
  name: istio-ingressgateway
{{< /text >}}

> ### Step 2:  Create proxy-protocol Envoy Filter

Author: done

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
kind: EnvoyFilter
metadata:
  name: proxy-protocol
  namespace: istio-system
spec:
  workloadSelector:
    labels:
      istio: ingressgateway
  configPatches:
  - applyTo: LISTENER
    patch:
      operation: MERGE
      value:
        listener_filters:
        - name: envoy.filters.listener.proxy_protocol

>         - name: envoy.filters.listener.tls_inspector

Reviewer 3: Istio has already added this filter

Reviewer 3: And also donot we need to match a specific port?

Author: Thanks, Zhihu. Based on out setup with Istio 1.7.3,  we need to add these filters. No port is needed here. Proxy protocol work with any layer 7 protocols even when encrypted).

{{< /text >}}

### Step 3: Enable `X-Forwarded-For` header

> This [blog](../../../docs/ops/configuration/traffic-management/network-topologies/) includes several samples of configuring Gateway Network Topology. This blog presents below out tuned configurations to enable `X-Forwarded-For` without any middle proxy.

Reviewer 2: You seem to have missed Rachael's suggestion here. Also should remove the ../../.. from the referenced path.
```suggestion
This [blog](/docs/ops/configuration/traffic-management/network-topologies/) includes several samples of configuring Gateway Network Topology. In the following example, the configurations are tuned to enable `X-Forwarded-For` without any middle proxy.
```

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
kind: EnvoyFilter
metadata:
  name: ingressgateway-settings
  namespace: istio-system
spec:
  configPatches:
  - applyTo: NETWORK_FILTER
    match:
      listener:
        filterChain:
          filter:
            name: envoy.http_connection_manager
    patch:
      operation: MERGE
      value:
        name: envoy.http_connection_manager
        typed_config:
          "@type": type.googleapis.com/envoy.config.filter.network.http_connection_manager.v2.HttpConnectionManager
          skip_xff_append: false
          use_remote_address: true
          xff_num_trusted_hops: 1
{{< /text >}}

> ### Step 4:  deploy ingress gateway for httpbin on port 80 and 443

Author: done

> Please pay attention that you will need additional patch on Mac to generate certificates for TLS when following [secure ingress setup](../../../docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress/secure-ingress/).

Author: done

---
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
kind: VirtualService
metadata:
  name: httpbin
spec:
  hosts:
  - "a25fa0b4835b.elb.us-west-2.amazonaws.com"
    gateways:
  - httpbin-gateway
    http:
  - match:
    - uri:
        prefix: /headers
    route:
    - destination:
        port:
          number: 8000
        host: httpbin
{{< /text >}}

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
kind: Gateway
metadata:
  name: mygateway2
spec:
  selector:
    istio: ingressgateway # use istio default ingress gateway
  servers:
  - port:
      number: 443
      name: https
      protocol: HTTPS
    tls:
      mode: SIMPLE
      credentialName: httpbin-credential # must be the same as secret
    hosts:
    - "a25fa0b4835b.elb.us-west-2.amazonaws.com"
---
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
kind: VirtualService
metadata:
  name: httpbin
spec:
  hosts:
  - "a25fa0b4835b.elb.us-west-2.amazonaws.com"
    gateways:
  - mygateway2
    http:
  - match:
    - uri:
        prefix: /headers
    route:
    - destination:
        port:
          number: 8000
        host: httpbin
{{< /text  >}}

### Step 5: Check header output of httpbin

> Check port 443, for example (80 will be similar), and compare the cases with and without protocol (all address information are faked for protection of real env).

Author: done

* Using Stream ID: 1 (easy handle 0x7fbf8c808200)
> GET /headers?show_env=1 HTTP/2
> Host: a25fa0b4835b.elb.us-west-2.amazonaws.com
> User-Agent: curl/7.64.1
> Accept: */*
>
* Connection state changed (MAX_CONCURRENT_STREAMS == 2147483647)!
< HTTP/2 200
< server: istio-envoy
< date: Thu, 29 Oct 2020 20:44:01 GMT
< content-type: application/json
< content-length: 612
< access-control-allow-origin: *
< access-control-allow-credentials: true
< x-envoy-upstream-service-time: 1
<
{
  "headers": {
    "Accept": "*/*",
    "Content-Length": "0",
    "Host": "a25fa0b4835b.elb.us-west-2.amazonaws.com",
    "User-Agent": "curl/7.64.1",
    "X-B3-Sampled": "0",
    "X-B3-Spanid": "69913a6e6e949334",
    "X-B3-Traceid": "729d5da3618545da69913a6e6e949334",
    "X-Envoy-Attempt-Count": "1",
    "X-Envoy-Decorator-Operation": "httpbin.default.svc.cluster.local:8000/headers*",
    "X-Envoy-Internal": "true",
    "X-Forwarded-For": "172.16.5.30",
    "X-Forwarded-Proto": "https",
    "X-Request-Id": "299c7f8a-5f89-480a-82c9-028c76d45d84"
  }
}
* Connection #0 to host a25fa0b4835b.elb.us-west-2.amazonaws.com left intact
* Closing connection 0
{{< /text >}}

## Conclusion

> This blog presents the deployment of stack consisted of AWS NLB and Istio ingress gateway with enabling of proxy-protocol. We hope it is useful to you if you are interested at protocol enabling in an anecdotal, experiential, and more informal way. One thing needs your attention is X-Forwarded-For header used only for convenience of reading in test. Fake of X-Forwarded-For is a problem worthy to solve but not belong to the scope of this blog.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This blog presents the deployment of a stack that consists of an AWS NLB and Istio ingress gateway that are enabled with proxy-protocol. We hope it is useful to you if you are interested in protocol enabling in an anecdotal, experiential, and more informal way. However, note that the `X-Forwarded-For` header should be used only for the convenience of reading in test, as dealing with fake `X-Forwarded-For` values is not within the scope of this blog.
```

I am not sure if my rewording of the last sentence is accurate. Please check

Author: Thanks. Done

---

> title: How to enable proxy protocol on AWS NLB and Istio ingress gateway
> subtitle: How to enable proxy protocol on AWS NLB and Istio ingress gateway
> description: How to enable proxy protocol on AWS NLB and Istio ingress gateway.
> publishdate: 2020-11-18

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Proxy protocol on AWS NLB and Istio ingress gateway
description: How to enable proxy protocol on AWS NLB and Istio ingress gateway.
publishdate: 2020-12-10
```

Author: done

attribution: "Xinhui Li (Salesforce) "
keywords: [trafficManagement,protocol extending]
---

This blog presents my latest experience about how to configure/enable proxy protocol with stack of AWS NLB and Istio Ingress gateway. The [Proxy Protocol](https://www.haproxy.com/blog/haproxy/proxy-protocol/) was designed to chain proxies / reverse-proxies without losing the client information with the benefits from protocol agnostic, no need change infrastructure, no negative impact from `NATing` firewalls and good scalability.  To get client IP easy to read, it is also enabled `X-Forwarded-For` of HTTP header in the deployment. In this blog, traffic management of Istio ingress are shown with httpbin service on 80 and 443 respectively to demonstrate the enabling result. Below comes a part of the protocol describing about the difference of proxy protocol v1 and v2.  In our use case, both v1 and v2 works for the purpose but AWS NLB today only support v2 shown by image below. So, proxy protocol v2 is referred in the rest of this blog by default.

> {{< text yaml >}}
> A receiver may be configured to support both version 1 and version 2 of the
> protocol. Identifying the protocol version is easy :
>     - if the incoming byte count is 16 or above and the first 13 bytes match
>       the protocol signature block followed by the protocol version 2 :
>            \x0D\x0A\x0D\x0A\x00\x0D\x0A\x51\x55\x49\x54\x0A\x02
>     - otherwise, if the incoming byte count is 8 or above, and the 5 first
>       characters match the US-ASCII representation of "PROXY" then the protocol
>       must be parsed as version 1 :
>            \x50\x52\x4F\x58\x59
>     - otherwise the protocol is not covered by this specification and the
>       connection must be dropped.
> {{< /text >}}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{< tip >}}
A receiver may be configured to support both version 1 and version 2 of the
protocol. Identifying the protocol version is easy:

- if the incoming byte count is 16 or more and the first 13 bytes match the protocol signature block
   `\x0D\x0A\x0D\x0A\x00\x0D\x0A\x51\x55\x49\x54\x0A\x02`, the protocol is version 2. 
           
- otherwise, if the incoming byte count is 8 or more, and the 5 first characters match the `US-ASCII`
    representation of "PROXY" (`\x50\x52\x4F\x58\x59`), then the protocol must be parsed as version 1.

- otherwise the protocol is not covered by this specification and the connection must be dropped.
{{< /tip >}}
```

{{< image width="100%" link="./aws-proxy-protocol.png" caption="AWS NLB portal to enable proxy protocol" >}}

## Two set-ups for 80 and 443 separately

Before going through the following steps, the AWS env is assumed ready with proper VPC, IAM, and Kubernetes setup.

> Step 1: Install Istio with AWS NLB.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Step 1: Install Istio with AWS NLB.
```

> The blog [Configuring Istio Ingress with AWS NLB](../../../blog/2018/aws-nlb/) provides detailed steps to set up AWS IAM roles and enable the usage of AWS NLB by Helm. You can also use other automation tools, such as Terraform, to achieve the same goal. In the following example, more complete configurations are shown in order to enable proxy protocol and `X-Forwarded-For` at the same time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The blog [Configuring Istio Ingress with AWS NLB](/blog/2018/aws-nlb/) provides detailed steps to set up AWS IAM roles and enable the usage of AWS NLB by Helm. You can also use other automation tools, such as Terraform, to achieve the same goal. In the following example, more complete configurations are shown in order to enable proxy protocol and `X-Forwarded-For` at the same time.
```

Author: done

Blog [Configuring Istio Ingress with AWS NLB](../../../blog/2018/aws-nlb/) provides detailed steps to set up AWS IAM roles and enable the usage of AWS NLB by Helm. The users can also use other automation tools e.g. Terraform to achieve the same goal. In this blog, below comes more complete configurations in order to enable proxy protocol and `X-Forwarded-For` at the same time.

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  annotations:
    service.beta.kubernetes.io/aws-load-balancer-proxy-protocol: "*"
    service.beta.kubernetes.io/aws-load-balancer-type: "nlb"
    proxy.istio.io/config: '{"gatewayTopology" : { "numTrustedProxies": 2 } }'
  labels:
    app: istio-ingressgateway
    istio: ingressgateway
    release: istio
  name: istio-ingressgateway
{{< /text >}}

> Step 2:  Create proxy-protocol Envoy Filter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Step 2:  Create proxy-protocol Envoy Filter
```

Author: done

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
kind: EnvoyFilter
metadata:
  name: proxy-protocol
  namespace: istio-system
spec:
  workloadSelector:
    labels:
      istio: ingressgateway
  configPatches:
  - applyTo: LISTENER
    patch:
      operation: MERGE
      value:
        listener_filters:
        - name: envoy.filters.listener.proxy_protocol
        - name: envoy.filters.listener.tls_inspector
{{< /text >}}

> Step 3: Enable `X-Forwarded-For` header.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Step 3: Enable `X-Forwarded-For` header
```

> This [blog](../../../docs/ops/configuration/traffic-management/network-topologies/) includes several samples of configuring Gateway Network Topology. This blog presents below out tuned configurations to enable `X-Forwarded-For` without any middle proxy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This [blog](/docs/ops/configuration/traffic-management/network-topologies/) includes several samples of configuring Gateway Network Topology. In the following example, the configurations are tuned to enable `X-Forwarded-For` without any middle proxy.
```

Author: done

> This [blog](../../../docs/ops/configuration/traffic-management/network-topologies/) includes several samples of configuring Gateway Network Topology. This blog presents below out tuned configurations to enable `X-Forwarded-For` without any middle proxy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This [blog](/docs/ops/configuration/traffic-management/network-topologies/) includes several samples of configuring Gateway Network Topology. This blog presents below out tuned configurations to enable `X-Forwarded-For` without any middle proxy.
```

Author: done, thanks

This [blog](../../../docs/ops/configuration/traffic-management/network-topologies/) includes several samples of configuring Gateway Network Topology. This blog presents below out tuned configurations to enable `X-Forwarded-For` without any middle proxy.

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
kind: EnvoyFilter
metadata:
  name: ingressgateway-settings
  namespace: istio-system
spec:
  configPatches:
  - applyTo: NETWORK_FILTER
    match:
      listener:
        filterChain:
          filter:
            name: envoy.http_connection_manager
    patch:
      operation: MERGE
      value:
        name: envoy.http_connection_manager
        typed_config:
          "@type": type.googleapis.com/envoy.config.filter.network.http_connection_manager.v2.HttpConnectionManager
          skip_xff_append: false
          use_remote_address: true
          xff_num_trusted_hops: 1
{{< /text >}}

> Step 4:  deploy ingress gateway for httpbin on port 80 and 443 respectively.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Step 4:  deploy ingress gateway for httpbin on port 80 and 443
```

Author: done

> When following the [secure ingress setup](../../../docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress/secure-ingress/), macOS users must add an additional patch to generate certificates for TLS .

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When following the [secure ingress setup](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress/secure-ingress/), macOS users must add an additional patch to generate certificates for TLS .
```

Author: done, thanks

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
kind: Gateway
metadata:
  name: httpbin-gateway
spec:
  selector:
    istio: ingressgateway # use Istio default gateway implementation
  servers:
  - port:
      number: 80
      name: http
      protocol: HTTP
    hosts:
    - "a25fa0b4835b.elb.us-west-2.amazonaws.com"
---
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
kind: VirtualService
metadata:
  name: httpbin
spec:
  hosts:
  - "a25fa0b4835b.elb.us-west-2.amazonaws.com"

>     gateways:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  gateways:
```

Author: done

  - httpbin-gateway

>     http:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  http:
```

Author: done

  - match:
    - uri:
        prefix: /headers
    route:
    - destination:
        port:
          number: 8000
        host: httpbin
{{< /text >}}

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
kind: Gateway
metadata:
  name: mygateway2
spec:
  selector:
    istio: ingressgateway # use istio default ingress gateway
  servers:
  - port:
      number: 443
      name: https
      protocol: HTTPS
    tls:
      mode: SIMPLE
      credentialName: httpbin-credential # must be the same as secret
    hosts:
    - "a25fa0b4835b.elb.us-west-2.amazonaws.com"
---
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
kind: VirtualService
metadata:
  name: httpbin
spec:
  hosts:
  - "a25fa0b4835b.elb.us-west-2.amazonaws.com"

>     gateways:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  gateways:
```

Author: done

  - mygateway2

>     http:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  http:
```

Author: done

    gateways:
  - mygateway2
    http:
  - match:
    - uri:
        prefix: /headers
    route:
    - destination:
        port:
          number: 8000
        host: httpbin
{{< /text  >}}

> Step 5: Check header output of httpbin (output on port 443 as example, 80 will be similar) and compare the cases with and without protocol (all address information are faked for protection of real env).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Step 5: Check header output of httpbin

Check port 443, for example (80 will be similar), and compare the cases with and without protocol (all address information are faked for protection of real env).
```

Author: done

* Using Stream ID: 1 (easy handle 0x7fc6c8810800)
> GET /headers?show_env=1 HTTP/2
> Host: a25fa0b4835b.elb.us-west-2.amazonaws.com
> User-Agent: curl/7.64.1
> Accept: */*
>
* Connection state changed (MAX_CONCURRENT_STREAMS == 2147483647)!
< HTTP/2 200
< server: istio-envoy
< date: Thu, 29 Oct 2020 21:39:46 GMT
< content-type: application/json
< content-length: 629
< access-control-allow-origin: *
< access-control-allow-credentials: true
< x-envoy-upstream-service-time: 2
<
{
  "headers": {
    "Accept": "*/*",
    "Content-Length": "0",
    "Host": "a25fa0b4835b.elb.us-west-2.amazonaws.com",
    "User-Agent": "curl/7.64.1",
    "X-B3-Sampled": "0",
    "X-B3-Spanid": "74f99a1c6fc29975",
    "X-B3-Traceid": "85db86fe6aa322a074f99a1c6fc29975",
    "X-Envoy-Attempt-Count": "1",
    "X-Envoy-Decorator-Operation": "httpbin.default.svc.cluster.local:8000/headers*",
    "X-Envoy-External-Address": "XX.110.54.41",
    "X-Forwarded-For": "XX.110.54.41",
    "X-Forwarded-Proto": "https",
    "X-Request-Id": "5c3bc236-0c49-4401-b2fd-2dbfbce506fc"
  }
}
* Connection #0 to host a25fa0b4835b.elb.us-west-2.amazonaws.com left intact
* Closing connection 0

> 
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{< /text >}}

{{< text yaml >}}
```

> * Closing connection 0
> 
> 
> //////////without proxy_protocal

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Closing connection 0
{{< /text >}}

{{< text yaml >}}
//////////without proxy_protocal
```

Author: done, thanks
